# Lecture 5, Part 7: Fonts

Fonts are incredibly important for the look and feel of your app's UI.

In iOS, the most important one for the user to set is the "preferred font" for *user content*. User content is information generated by or requested by the user (not button title, etc.)

There are a number of different settings (e.g. headline, body, footnote), and its important to set a default font for them. The interface builder makes this easy.

You can also set a preferred font in code (e.g. for use in an NSAttributedString) by using the `UIFont` method `preferredFont(forTextStyle: UIFontTextStyle) -> UIFont`. The documentation lists the possible styles.

It's important to note that the size of this font is variable. For accessibility purposes, you want to make sure you're using preferred fonts. This lets iOS scale up the fonts if the user changes their settings.

Because the font sizes can change, you need to test that the layout continues to work well at different sizes. The easiest way to do this is to use autolayout, which we will see in more depth in future lectures.

If you want to include a custom font of some kind, UIFont has a constructor which allows this: 
```Swift
let font = UIFont(name: "Helvetica", size: 36.0)
```
However, even though we're setting the size of this font, we still want the scaling functionality to work. We do this using font `metrics`:

```Swift
let metrics = UIFontMetrics(forTextStyle: .body) //or UIFontMetrics.default
let fontToUse = metrics.scaledFont(for: font)
```

There are also "system fonts". These usually appear on things like buttons. Don't use them on your user content.

[Previous Note](../Lecture%205%20-%20Drawing/Part%206%20-%20Drawing.md) | [Back To Contents](https://github.com/Firanus/stanford-iOS-lecture-notes) | [Next Lecture](../Lecture%206%20-%20Multitouch/Part%200%20-%20Intro.md)